FISH-656 Document new command for upgrading Payara Server (#98)
payara/Payara-Enterprise-Documentation: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/payara-server/upgrade-server.adoc

[[upgrade-server]]
= Upgrade Payara Server

__Since Payara Platform 5.24.0. Can be installed manually to Payara Platform 5.20.0 and newer._

This tool can be used to upgrade a Payara Server installation to a newer version. The Upgrade Tool is bundled in Payara Server versions from version *5.24.0*. It can also be obtained from Payara Nexus as the https://nexus.payara.fish/#browse/browse:payara-enterprise:fish%2Fpayara%2Fextras%2Fpayara-upgrade-tool[payara-upgrade-tool artifact] (groupId: `fish.payara.extras`, artifactId: `payara-upgrade-tool`). If obtained from the Payara Nexus, drop the JAR artifact into your Payara Server installation under `payara5/glassfish/lib/asadmin`. The version 1.0 of the standalone upgrade tool can be installed into Payara Server Enterprise 5.20.0 or newer and supports upgrading to any newer Payara Server Enterprise version.

> NOTE: This feature is currently released as a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) and will be gradually getting additional enhancements in the future Payara Enterprise releases.

Reviewer: Minor correction.
```suggestion
NOTE: This feature is currently released as a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) and will be gradually getting additional enhancements in future Payara Enterprise releases.
```

The command will also back up the old version and domains in the default location (_payara5/glassfish/domains_) to allow for rolling back. The command can also be used to downgrade to an older Payara version although this is not encouraged.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--username` |String | The username for the Payara Nexus server.||Yes
|`--version` |String |Specifies the version number of the new version of Payara to use.| |Yes
|`--distribution` |Enum |Specifies the distribution of Payara Server to download. This can payara, payara-web, payara-ml, or payara-web-ml.|payara|No
|=======================================================================

[[upgrade-example]]
=== Example

This example upgrades a Payara Web distribution to version 5.24.1

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> upgrade-server --username example-user --distribution web --verson 5.24.1
----

[[rollback-server-command]]
== Rollback Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> rollback-server`

*Aim*::

> This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. The backup of the domain is not restored automatically. If you need that, you should perform a restore-domain command manually pointing to the ZIP created during the upgrade-server process under `$domaindir/backups` (e.g. `payara5/glassfish/domains/domain1/backups`).

Reviewer: Add a link.
```suggestion
This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. The backup of the domain is not restored automatically. If you need that, you should perform a xref:/documentation/user-guides/restore-domain.adoc[restore-domain command] manually pointing to the ZIP created during the upgrade-server process under `$domaindir/backups` (e.g. `payara5/glassfish/domains/domain1/backups`).
```

The command will also back up the old version and domains in the default location (_payara5/glassfish/domains_) to allow for rolling back. The command can also be used to downgrade to an older Payara version although this is not encouraged.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--username` |String | The username for the Payara Nexus server.||Yes
|`--version` |String |Specifies the version number of the new version of Payara to use.| |Yes
|`--distribution` |Enum |Specifies the distribution of Payara Server to download. This can payara, payara-web, payara-ml, or payara-web-ml.|payara|No
|=======================================================================

[[upgrade-example]]
=== Example

This example upgrades a Payara Web distribution to version 5.24.1

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> upgrade-server --username example-user --distribution web --verson 5.24.1
----

[[rollback-server-command]]
== Rollback Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> rollback-server`

*Aim*::

> This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. This does not rollback the _domain.xml_. The domain.xml backup can be found under _$domaindir/backups_ (e.g. _payara5/glassfish/domains/domain1/backups_).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. The backup of the domain is not restored automatically. If you need that, you should perform a restore-domain command manually pointing to the ZIP created during the upgrade-server process under `$domaindir/backups` (e.g. `payara5/glassfish/domains/domain1/backups`).
```

> [[example-5]]
> === Example
> 
> This example rolls back the server.
> 
> [source, shell]
> ----
> asadmin> rollback-server
> ----

Reviewer 2: Remove the whole example
```suggestion
```

[[Upgrade Server]]
= Upgrade Payara Server

> Payara Server can be upgraded to new versions from version *5.24.0*

Reviewer 2: This tool can be used to upgrade a Payara Server installation to a newer version. The Upgrade Tool is bundled in Payara Server versions from version *5.24.0*. It can also be obtained from Payara Nexus at https://nexus.payara.fish/#browse/browse:payara-enterprise:fish%2Fpayara%2Fextras%2Fpayara-upgrade-tool (
  groupId: `fish.payara.extras`, artifactId: `payara-upgrade-tool`). If obtained from the Payara Nexus, drop the JAR artifact into your Payara Server installation under `payara5/glassfish/lib/asadmin`. The version 1.0 of the standalone upgrade tool can be installed into Payara Server Enterprise 5.20.0 or newer and supports upgrading to any newer Payara Server Enterprise version.

NOTE: This feature is in technical preview.

[[upgrade-server-command]]
== Upgrade Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> upgrade-server`

*Aim*::
This command can be used to upgrade Payara Server to the specified distribution along with all SSH nodes in the _domain.xml_.
The command will also back up the old version and domains in the default location (_payara5/glassfish/domains_) to allow for rolling back. The command can also be used to downgrade to an older Payara version although this is not encouraged.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--username` |String | The username for the Payara Nexus server.||Yes
|`--version` |String |Specifies the version number of the new version of Payara to use.| |Yes
|`--distribution` |Enum |Specifies the distribution of Payara Server to download. This can payara, payara-web, payara-ml, or payara-web-ml.|payara|No
|=======================================================================

> [[example-5]]

Reviewer: Why example 5...?

=== Example

This example upgrades a Payara Web distribution to version 5.24.1

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> upgrade-server --username example-user --distribution web --verson 5.24.1
----

> NOTE: Upgrading Payara Server is not currently supported on Windows.

Reviewer: This should probably be moved to enar the top, and reworded slightly to cover the entire update tool rather than just upgrading, e.g. "The Update Tool is not currently supported on Windows."

> [[Rollback-server-command]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[rollback-server-command]]
```

== Rollback Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> rollback-server`

*Aim*::
This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run. This does not rollback the _domain.xml_.

> [[example-5]]

Reviewer: Bit of a pointless example as it is. Either drop it or add in an extra couple of lines of unzipping a backed up domain.xml and moving it back in to the correct place.

[[Upgrade Server]]
= Upgrade Payara Server

> Payara Server can be upgraded to new versions from version *5.24.0*

Reviewer: There probably needs to be a warning or note stating that the feature is a technical preview.

[[upgrade-server-command]]
== Upgrade Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> upgrade-server`

*Aim*::

> This command can be used to upgrade Payara Server to the specified and distribution along with all ssh nodes in the domain.xml.

Reviewer 3: ssh should be SSH
domain.xml should be in italics

> This command can be used to upgrade Payara Server to the specified and distribution along with all ssh nodes in the domain.xml.

Reviewer: Debbie's suggestions plus my own slight correction
```suggestion
This command can be used to upgrade Payara Server to the specified distribution along with all SSH nodes in the _domain.xml_.
```

> This will also back the old version first to allow for rolling back.

Reviewer: Add info about domains and slight wording change.
```suggestion
The command will also back up the old version and domains in the default location (_payara5/glassfish/domains_) to allow for rolling back.
```

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory
|`--username` |String | The username for the Payara Nexus server.||Yes
|`--version` |String |Specifies the version number of the new version of Payara to use.| |Yes
|`--distribution` |Enum |Specifies the distribution of Payara Server to download. This can payara, payara-web, payara-ml, or payara-web-ml.|payara|No

> |`--target` |String |Specifies the domain to perform the upgrade on number of the new version of Payara to use.| domain1|No

Reviewer: Doesn't have a target option unless I'm blind.
```suggestion
```

|=======================================================================

[[example-5]]
=== Example

This example upgrades a Payara Web distribution to version 5.24.1

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> upgrade-server --username example-user --distribution web --verson 5.24.1
----

> NOTE: Uprading Payara Server does not currently work on Windows.

Reviewer 3: Uprading should be Upgrading

Reviewer: Debbie's suggestion, plus a change in language to something nicer than "doesn't work" :P
```suggestion
NOTE: Upgrading Payara Server is not currently supported on Windows.
```

[[Rollback-server-command]]
== Rollback Server Command

*Usage*::
`asadmin> rollback-server`

*Aim*::

> This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrad-server command was run.

Reviewer 3: upgrad-server should be upgrade-server

Reviewer: Debbie's suggestion
```suggestion
This command can be used to rollback Payara Server to the point before the upgrade-server command was run.
```

> 

Reviewer: We probably need to note that the command doesn't currently roll back the domain.xml - this needs to be done manually by extracting the backup zip created by the backup-domain command that gets called during `upgrade-server`.

[[command-options-1]]
=== Command Options

[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Option |Type |Description |Default |Mandatory

> |`--target` |String |Specifies the domain to perform the upgrade on number of the new version of Payara to use.| domain1|No

Reviewer: Doesn't have a target option unless I'm blind.
```suggestion
```

|=======================================================================

[[example-5]]
=== Example

This example rolls back a domain called payaradomain.

[source, shell]
----
asadmin> rollback-server --target payaradomain

> ----

Reviewer: There isn't currently a target option, and no roll back of specific domains.

Payara Server can be upgraded to new versions from version *5.24.0*

> NOTE: This feature is in technical preview.

Reviewer 4: Are we going to use the term 'technical preview'?

Reviewer 3: I thought we were going with MVP - minimally viable product (MVP) that can be used right away - but will be further developed and improved upon to offer a richer feature set in future Enterprise releases.
